All right, so moving on from the card we're working on at the end of the last video, can you get us
some without using any stream?
The answer to this is yes, using the reduced method on stream.
So what?
I added some code to our follow.
This is the same code we're working on in the last video.
We got to replace the last laptop print and here is Kasoulides 67 or 68 with this code.
So here's what I'm doing is I'm passing the method reference into charcoal and color on some to the
reduced method on stream, which accepts a binary operator and returns an optional if we run this code.
We can see the airport there, the proof that something data either way produces the desired result.
And again, we'll get randomized results each time we run it.
The single argument produced methods that are just used as the definition performs a reduction on the
elements of this strain using an associative accumulation function and returns an optional describing
the reduced value, if any.
So what is an associative accumulation function?
Well, in this case, I know it's a binary operator, an integer column called Some fits the bill,
but what does this really mean?
Looking back, it occurred again.
This replaced the last calculation method reference.
Here on line 67, ombuds, with a lambda expression, so it might not be obvious, but what is happening
here?
What are they A and B parameters in the lambda expression that I've just pasted in?
Let's run this first to confirm that it works.
They can see that it still works to better clarify what's going on here.
That's in another version.
Well, overall, there was some reduced definition again.
So here I've simply changed the names of the binary operator parameter, which lends clarity to what
the accumulation function's doing.
The value of the current element is being added to a running total, which is being stored in memory.
While the pipeline is processing, the accumulator function takes two parameters, a partial result
of the reduction and the next element of the stream.
In this example, an integer and returns a new partial result.
So let's run this, confirming that things are still working.
A type of combat to put on screen lists, additional operations on the three streams in stream, long
stream and double stream, which are not supported or have different signatures, Min and Max from the
stream versions.
All of these operations are terminal operations, with the exception of the static methods, range and
range closed.
So the first operation average return type is an option of double and it returns an optional double
describing the arithmetic mean of elements of this stream or an empty optional if the stream is empty
max return type optional int or an optional log or an optional double.
The result corresponds to the top of the invoking stream in stream returns optional.
The long stream returns optional.
Long and double stream returns optional double.
I mean, very similar, the same return types and the result of using mean corresponds to the same types
or invoking streams that we talked about for Max Sum, the return to I said it along or a double, and
the result corresponds to the top of the invoking stream.
Its stream returns and it long stream returns, a long and double stream returns a double.
We've got the box method return.
Top is a stream of tea, so it returns a stream consisting of the elements of the stream each box to
an integer along or double corresponding to the invoking stream in stream, long stream or double stream.
Next, we have the range method for our operations, noting that there's two versions here.
We've got one excepting two parameters starting collusive and end exclusive, and the other one has
parameters of logs that inclusive and long and exclusive.
The return type is either stream or long stream as appropriate, and it returns a sequential ordered
in stream along stream from start inclusive, inclusive to end exclusive exclusive by an incremental
step of one.
And note there, that stream doesn't have this method.
Next, we have arranged closed operations.
We've got the parameters there to start inclusive and inclusive, 13, that's different to range, which
was and exclusive.
So we've got one thing and also an equivalent one using long the return type as an extreme or a long
stream as appropriate.
And it returns a sequential ordered stream along stream from start inclusive, inclusive to and inclusive
again inclusive by an incremental step of one important distinction between that and the range method.
The last one, the last method of operation.
There is summary statistics.
We've got either an end summary statistics, a long summary statistics or a double summary statistics
sort of turns one of the three describing various summary data about the elements of the stream, depending
on the type.
This is a special case of a reduction.
Let's do a quick review of these in a new class and we'll call this one primitive streams.
So looking at this code in our main method, we're creating an extreme using extreme range and invoking
the terminal operations summary statistics, pointing out the result, which is an end summary statistic.
Next, we're creating a long stream using long stream range closed and we're invoking the terminal operations
summary statistics pointing out the result in this case will be a long summary statistic.
And the third example, creating a double stream there were using double stream iterate and invoking
the terminal operations summary statistics, putting out the result, which in this case is a double
summary.
Statistics running the code.
We can see the output at the bottom of the screen so that the calling range is exclusive of the second
argument.
So calling it with range one, comma ten gives us a list of integers from one through nine calling range
to close to one come a ten gave a list of lungs from one to 10.
Its second argument is inclusive as possible, carried in here.
So this kind of pasted in demonstrates some of the reduction operations min max average as well as some.
Let's run that.
So the output here shows that depending on the type of stream and the operation used, the type of the
result is different.
The average method always returns an option double regardless of the type of stream.
The same method returns a primitivist long or double that corresponds to the type of stream the min
and max methods return an optional int optional long or optional double corresponding to the top stream
being in its stream long stream or double stream.
Append one last bit of code.
Except that import.
Now, obviously, there are parentheses and a semicolon to close that off.
So this is showing you how to transform from a stream of type integer to an extreme using map to it.
And how to go the other way is in the boxed operation.
I'm transforming again using map to double, which makes a stream a double stream.
So if you run this now, you can see the output at the bottom of the screen.
Some of this video and the previous one, I've reviewed simple calculations that you can make which
aggregate information on a stream.
I'm going to be discussing more complicated reductions in more detail in the video on collectors' and
grouping.
But first, let's review sorting on a stream in the next video.